<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Introduction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="introduction" epub:type="introduction">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Introduction</h2>
			<h3>Parkman’s Life and Works</h3>
			<p>Francis Parkman was born in Boston, September 16, 1823. His Puritan ancestry included several ministers, with such Old Testament names as Elias and Ebenezer, and a prosperous Yankee merchant, from whom Parkman’s father, the pastor of the New North Church in Boston, inherited a comfortable fortune. When Francis was eight years old, he was sent to his grandfather’s home at Medford, a few miles from Boston, to gain strength and health. “Here,” he tells us, “I learned very little, and spent the intervals of schooling more profitably in collecting eggs, insects and reptiles, trapping squirrels and woodchucks, and making persistent, though rarely fortunate, attempts to kill birds with arrows.”</p>
			<p>At twelve he returned to the city and entered the Chauncey Hall School, where he was trained to use clear, direct English and to memorize the best poetry. After school hours he and his boy friends converted the barn-loft into the “Star Theatre,” where they rehearsed plays, devised costumes, and prepared handbills announcing their performances, which were often “concluded with some interesting experiments in chemistry by Mr. Parkman.” More frequently, however, he might have been found reveling in the pages of Scott or following Cooper’s favorite Leather-stocking into the haunts of the Indian. Indeed, he became “so identified with the novelist’s red heroes,” says one of his friends, “that he dreamed of them, talked of them more than anything else, and emulated them in woodcraft.”</p>
			<p>We are not surprised, therefore, that soon after entering Harvard College, in 1840, Parkman determined to write a history of the wars that ended in the conquest of Canada, for here, he declared, “the forest drama was more stirring and the forest stage more thronged with appropriate figures than in any other passage of our history.” To this task Parkman gradually gave all the powers of his restless, untiring nature, which found labor a passion and rest intolerable; and though he finished his college course with credit and even entered the Harvard Law School, his reading and study, his play and travel were alike directed to prepare him for his task. Whatever Parkman undertook he did with all his might; consequently five o’clock of a winter morning often found him in a cold room poring by candle light over some musty record of the days of Montcalm and Wolf. He read a while library of American and French history and crowded with memoranda his little green notebooks. He studied the style and methods of the master historians, filled reams of paper with character sketches, and strove to learn to write “so men would like to read him.”</p>
			<h3>The Oregon Trail</h3>
			<p>On the maps which Parkman consulted in planning his trip in 1846 that spacious tract lying west of the bend of the Missouri and east of the Rocky Mountains, and extending from Canada to Texas, was designated as “The Great American Desert.” Such was the ignorance of this region even among those who should have been better informed. This great plain, in which have since been developed a half dozen productive and prosperous states, busy with mill and farm and ranch, was then one vast, unbroken Indian territory. To the south extended Texas, which had lately won its freedom from Mexico, but which had not as yet added its start to our flag. To the west and southwest lay California and New Mexico, ruled by their last Mexican governors; while to the north of California stretched that vast, undefined territory called the Oregon country.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
